---
title: "1.15"
url: /releasenotes/private-platform/1-15/
description: "Release notes for version 1.15 of Private Mendix Platform"
weight: 100
---

These release notes cover changes made to the [Private Mendix Platform](/private-mendix-platform/) in version 1.15.

## 1.15.0

### Release date: October 31, 2024

Version 1.15.0 of Private Mendix Platform introduces a number of bug fixes and improvements.

#### New Features

##### Starting and Stopping Deployed Apps

You can now easily start and stop deployed applications by using a new option available in the environment management menu. For more information, see [Private Mendix Platform User Guide: Deploying Your App](/private-mendix-platform/user-guide/#deploy).

##### System Admin Account Can Be Disabled in Bulk

To help fulfill compliance requirements related to account control, Private Mendix Platform now supports disabling the default MxAdmin account for apps at deployment. This setting effectively removes the ability to access the app using the default system admin account, and is only recommended when combined with default use of an SSO module to avoid lockout. Administrators can enable or disable this setting in the **Settings** > **Integrations** > **Security** section of the administrator menu.

##### PCLM Component Upgrade Handled by the Installer

The installation wizard for Private Mendix Platform now supports upgrading the PCLM component. For more information, see [Upgrading Private Mendix Platform](/private-mendix-platform/quickstart/#upgrade).

#### Improvements

##### Grafana Metrics Now Available

Private Mendix Platform now offers enhanced monitoring capabilities by incorporating Grafana metrics.

###### Data Import Available for New Instances Only

The Platform settings import and export functionality has been restored. In order to protect data integrity and Platform stability, importing Platform settings is now available for new instances only. You can import a JSON file with configuration settings as part of running the initial configuration wizard. After the initial configuration, it is not possible to import settings at a later stage.

##### Webhook Improvements

###### Custom Webhook Message Template Shows All Default Fields

The custom webhook message template now displays all default fields. This includes the four default fields (*eventId*, *eventType*, *eventTime*, and *operator*), which are always included in the message payload.

#### Updates

##### Studio Pro Updates

* Studio Pro 9.24 LTS latest patch version updated to [9.24.29](/releasenotes/studio-pro/9.24/#92429) (production support)
* Studio Pro 10.6 MTS latest patch version updated to [10.6.17](/releasenotes/studio-pro/10.6/#10617) (innovation track, limited support)
* Studio Pro 10.12 MTS is now compatible starting with version [10.12.8](/releasenotes/studio-pro/10.12/#10128) (innovation track, limited support)

#### Fixes

We have provided the following fixes:

* (Platform) We have fixed a formatting issue with the Platform log file downloaded in PDF format.
* (Platform) We have resolved some issues with the build package creation and download.
* (Platform) We have fixed an issue where the MDA Storage settings for Azure Blob were not saved.
* (Platform) We have resolved an issue with Git credentials that occurred after reopening an app with Studio Pro version 10.12.1.
