---
title: "1.15"
url: /releasenotes/private-platform/1-16/
description: "Release notes for version 1.16 of Private Mendix Platform"
weight: 90
---

These release notes cover changes made to the [Private Mendix Platform](/private-mendix-platform/) in version 1.16.

## 1.16.0

### Release date: November 29, 2024

Version 1.16.0 of Private Mendix Platform introduces a number of new features, improvements, and bug fixes.

#### New Features

##### Configurable Deploy Pipeline

You can now configure the Deploy pipeline to take into consideration the type of changes. In the administrator **Settings** > **Integrations** > **Deployment** section, there is a new check box which allows you to bypass the deployment steps and instead simply restart the app in case of changes to the app environment (such as the app constants or the number of replicas).

##### Configurable Login Banners

You can now configure a banner that users will see before, during, or after the login page of your app, for example, to display any information about privacy or security that you want to communicate to your users. Administrators can enable or disable this setting in the **Settings** > **Preferences** > **General** > **Branding** > **Access Banner** section of the administrator menu.

##### Additional Languages for Private Mendix Platform

Private Mendix Platform is now available in Chinese, Japanese, and Korean.

#### Improvements

##### AWS ECR Supported as OCI registry

Private Mendix Platform now supports Amazon Elastic Container Registry (ECR) as the OCI registry for build input. For more information, see [Configuring CI/CD on Kubernetes](/private-mendix-platform/configure-k8s/).

##### Engineering Improvements

###### Admin Can Force a Logout for All Users

Admins can now log out any individual user, or all logged in users at the same time. The options are available in the **Manage** > **Users** > **User Management** > **Actions** and **Users** sections of the administrator menu. 

#### Updates

##### Studio Pro Updates

* Studio Pro 9.24 LTS latest patch version updated to [9.24.29](/releasenotes/studio-pro/9.24/#92429) (production support)
* Studio Pro 10.6 MTS latest patch version updated to [10.6.17](/releasenotes/studio-pro/10.6/#10617) (innovation track, limited support)
* Studio Pro 10.12 MTS is now compatible starting with version [10.12.9](/releasenotes/studio-pro/10.12/#10129) (innovation track, limited support)

#### Fixes

We have provided the following fixes:

* (Platform) We have solved a 409 conflict issue with the Build API.
* (Platform) We have fixed a formatting issue with the automatically generated Git server URL for Azure.
* (UI) We have resolved an issue where no error was shown while trying to create a group with a name that was already used for another group.
* (UI) We have fixed an issue where an error message was incorrectly displayed during app import if all available apps had already been imported.
* (UI) We have resolved an issue where the user profile image was not displayed in Studio Pro 9.24.3.
