---
title: "1.17"
url: /releasenotes/private-platform/1-17/
description: "Release notes for version 1.17 of Private Mendix Platform"
weight: 80
---

These release notes cover changes made to the [Private Mendix Platform](/private-mendix-platform/) in version 1.17.

## 1.17.0

### Release date: December 31, 2024

Version 1.17.0 of Private Mendix Platform introduces a number of improvements and bug fixes.

#### Improvements

##### App Import Enabled for Azure DevOps

On the **Import Apps** page, administrators can import existing Mendix apps that are in their version control host but not yet in Private Mendix Platform. Previously, this function was available only for GitHub, GitLab, and Bitbucket. We have now enabled it for Azure DevOps hosts as well.

##### PCLM Installation Supports Aws-irsa as Authentication Method

When installing Private Cloud License Manager, you can now select aws-irsa as authentication method. For more information, see [Private Mendix Platform Quickstart Guide: Installing Private Cloud License Manager](/private-mendix-platform-quickstart/#install-pclm).

##### Webhook Improvements

When adding a webhook step to the Build or Deployment pipelines, you no longer need to specify the webhook type.

##### Engineering Improvements

* Azure DevOps has been updated to use the new *mxbuild* tool.
* We have implemented performance improvements for SBOM.

#### Updates

##### Studio Pro Updates

* Studio Pro 9.24 LTS latest patch version updated to [9.24.31](/releasenotes/studio-pro/9.24/#92431) (production support)
* Studio Pro 10.6 MTS latest patch version updated to [10.6.18](/releasenotes/studio-pro/10.6/#10618) (innovation track, limited support)
* Studio Pro 10.12 MTS latest patch version updated to [10.12.10](/releasenotes/studio-pro/10.12/#101210) (innovation track, limited support)

#### Fixes

We have provided the following fixes:

* (Platform) We have fixed an issue where the **Build & Deploy** capability could not be enabled in the **Capabilities** menu.
* (Platform) We have fixed an issue where SSO login using SAML would fail if the user account already existed in Private Mendix Platform.
* (UI) We have resolved an issue with GitLab pagination in GitLab 17.5.2-ee.
* (UI) We have resolved some pagination issues in the Chinese translation of Private Mendix Platform.