---
title: "1.18"
url: /releasenotes/private-platform/1-18/
description: "Release notes for version 1.18 of Private Mendix Platform"
weight: 70
---

These release notes cover changes made to the [Private Mendix Platform](/private-mendix-platform/) in version 1.18.

## 1.18.0

### Release date: January 23, 2024

Version 1.18.0 of Private Mendix Platform introduces a number of improvements and bug fixes.

#### Improvements

##### Environment Resource Packages Now Customizable

You can now customize the environment resource packages (small, medium, and large) that are selected when [creating a new environment](/developerportal/deploy/private-cloud-deploy/#create-environment).

##### Chinese, Japanese, and Korean Localization of Admin Settings

Various admin settings and menus of Private Mendix Platform are now available in Chinese, Japanese, and Korean.

##### Logging Improvements

Version 1.18.0 introduces several improvements to logging and auditing. These include the following:

* Configuring the level of detail logged for some actions
* Sorting and filtering audit actions
* Writing your logs to an external database
* Receiving email alerts for any audit logging failures

##### UX Improvements

After clicking **Refresh**, the screen now stays on the current page instead of returning to the **My Apps** page.

#### Updates

##### Studio Pro Updates

* Studio Pro 9.24 LTS latest patch version updated to [9.24.31](/releasenotes/studio-pro/9.24/#92431) (production support)
* Studio Pro 10.6 MTS latest patch version updated to [10.6.18](/releasenotes/studio-pro/10.6/#10618) (innovation track, limited support)
* Studio Pro 10.12 MTS latest patch version updated to [10.12.11](/releasenotes/studio-pro/10.12/#101211) (innovation track, limited support)

#### Fixes

We have provided the following fixes:

* (Marketplace) We have added a requirement for Marketplace content names to be unique.
* (Platform) We have fixed an issue with downloading files from the S3 bucket.
* (Platform) We have fixed an issue which occurred when adding a webhook to the Build pipeline.
* (Platform) We have fixed an issue where the fields related to the MDA package and OCI image were not shown for Kubernetes.
* (UI) The **Build Steps** option is now greyed out for build methods where it is not available.
* (UI) We have resolved an issue where the URL did not change when navigating between some pages.

#### Known Issues

* Private Mendix Platform does not support manual production deployment cluster for AWS ECR and Azure ACR migration.
* Studio Pro 10.18 MTS is not available on Private Mendix Platform in this release due to ongoing Git incompatibility issues.