---
title: "10.18"
url: /releasenotes/studio-pro/10.18/
description: "The release notes for Mendix Studio Pro 10.18 (including all patches) with details on new features, bug fixes, and known issues."
mts: true
weight: 82
---

{{% alert color="info" %}}
This is the [MTS](/releasenotes/studio-pro/lts-mts/#mts) version 10 release for apps in production.
{{% /alert %}}

## 10.18.2 {#10182}

**Release date: January , 2025**

{{% button color="info" href="https://marketplace.mendix.com/link/studiopro/10.18.2" text="Go to Marketplace" title="Download version 10.18.2 from the Marketplace" %}}

### Improvements
    
- We added a progress dialog when doing rename, including or excluding a document/module in the App Explorer
- We made the commit dialog faster and more responsive, this will make the dialog smoother to use.

### Fixes

- We fixed an issue on Windows where temporary files created for image uploads were not cleaned up. (Ticket 181323)
- We introduced a consistency error when the data source is an entity path with steps traversing from a local to a remote entity. (Ticket 203958)
- We fixed Dojo client memory usage when running an app for an extended period of time. Specifically, we fixed several memory leaks that would occur when opening thousands of pages. (Ticket 232228)
- We fixed an **Oops** dialog that occurred when opening the **View on your device** dialog when running an app with navigation profiles of the same kind. (Ticket 233598)
-  We fixed an issue where applications using the Dojo client would sometimes break caused by browser extensions injecting scripts into the page. (Ticket 236663)
- We fixed an error in XPath constraint processing for the web client that caused a **System.ArgumentException: QueryConstraint not found** exception in Studio Pro. (Ticket #236719)
- We fixed multiple things involving the logic editors:
    - We fixed extracting microflows to correctly create parameters when variables were used in loops.
    - We fixed the displayed output variable name for the **Import with a mapping** action. (Tickets 237120, 237336, 238026, 238771, 238994)
    - We fixed a bug where we translated variable names which could cause error messages to be shown.
- We fixed an issue where list view item actions were not working correctly in the native client. (Tickets 237875, 238176)
- We fixed an issue where the creation of an index fails when one of its attributes is not available on the offline database. (Ticket 239701)
- We received reports of multiple tasks being scheduled for the same scheduled event. To handle this situation gracefully, we now clean up superfluous tasks on startup. Additionally, we introduced extra logging to help diagnose these issues.
- We fixed an issue where deployment could fail when an entity had one system association (**owner** or **changedBy**) already in the database and a second one was added later.
- We fixed an issue where a wrong homepage was shown briefly before the one configured by a nanoflow action finished loading.

### Breaking Changes
    
- We reverted the fix for listening between widgets to continue after hiding the selecting widget, such as data grid 2, with conditional visibility. The issue will be addressed in a future release. (Ticket 206642)

## 10.18.1 {#10181}

**Release date: January 10, 2025**
{{% button color="info" href="https://marketplace.mendix.com/link/studiopro/10.18.1" text="Go to Marketplace" title="Download version 10.18.1 from the Marketplace" %}}

### Improvements

* We improved the **Move document** dialog box:
    * We removed the context menu from the dialog box.
    * We added an option to create a new module or folder in dialog box. 
    * We removed the **Show** option.
* We made improvements to the **Changes** pane:
    * Users can now resize columns to display the complete file path. Additionally, users can hover over the path to see the full file path in a tooltip.
    * We updated the button labels in the **Changes** pane, and certain dialogs to use **local** and **server** instead of **mine** and **theirs** for selecting the source when resolving file conflicts.
* We made Studio Pro use the legacy Expression editor by default on Windows; the modernized version can be activated via  **Preferences**.
* We improved the way Studio Pro opens dialog boxes, which should reduce the instances of issues Studio Pro freezing because blocking dialog boxes are not visible. Also, this fixes some issues with pop-ups and menus appearing in the wrong location.
* When installing Studio Pro, the ARM version of the Java Development Kit is installed on computers with an ARM CPU.

### Fixes

* <a id="fix-outbound-rest-request"></a>We fixed a [known issue](#ki-outbound-rest-request) in the serialization of the request body of two things: Call REST actions that use a custom request template, and Consumed REST operations that use a fixed string body. They now use UTF-8 encoding instead of ISO-8859-1. (Ticket 235194)
* We fixed an issue where filtering over system associations *owner* and*'changedBy* in a data grid 2 column failed to render. (Tickets 231167, 233168)
* We fixed an issue where items were incorrectly rendered as disabled in the native client in some cases. (Ticket 232033)
* We fixed an issue with conversion where variables on a page were presented in a different order. This issue caused certain [widget event actions](/refguide/on-click-event/#actions) to change when upgrading to Studio Pro10.4 or above. Specifically the arguments of [Call Microflow](/refguide/on-click-event/#microflow-arguments) and [Call Nanoflow](/refguide/on-click-event/#nanoflow) referring to a selection were changed if the widget was nested in another widget exposing the same entity. Note that this change does not correct previously converted apps which may now have an unintended argument configuration for Event Actions. (Ticket 233988) 
* We fixed a bug in the text box and text area widgets where the caret sometimes jumped to the end of the text during typing when the **While user is entering data** [on change behavior](/refguide/text-area/#while-user-is-entering-data) option was used. This occurred when a neighboring widget used the same attribute in an expression, for example, for Conditional Visibility. (Ticket 234672)
* We fixed an issue where using the S3 storage service resulted in a warning like *If you are using Java 9+, you will need to include javax.xml.bind:jaxb-api as a dependency.*. (Ticket 235163, 235904)
* We fixed an error where apps got stuck when their internet connections were unstable.
* We fixed a bug where disposed tool windows were still considered active in the UI, causing Studio Pro to crash when the active editor changed.
* We changed the expression editor on macOS to not use smart-quotes.
* We fixed an error that appeared when selecting a Team Server App in the **Branch Line Manager**.
* We fixed an issue with XPath collection parameters. An XPath collection parameter with a single element now has proper type conversion done like other parameters. This issue affected the workflow engine startup in cases where there was only a single workflow defined in the app.
* We fixed an issue in the error details reported by published OData services. For errors containing more than one error detail, such as when a client inserted an object with multiple required attributes missing from the request body, the order in which these details were produced was inconsistent. This inconsistency meant that changing the runtime version altered the order.
* We fixed an issue where an end-user used nanoflow-based homepages and the back behavior did not work correctly.
* We fixed an issue that was causing the pluggable widget previews to display incorrectly in **Structure mode**.
* We fixed an issue where if the application failed to reload it did not restart.
* We fixed an issue with the **Edit** and **Delete** buttons in the **Jar Dependency Exclusion** dialog. These buttons caused an error if the list was empty.
* We fixed an issue where using the offline web profile caused errors when sessions were being cleaned up.
* We fixed an issue where migrating a Java 21 application reset the Java version to 11.
* We fixed an issue when creating a new app from blank templates resulted in changed files and possible oops crash due to git client not being accessible.

## 10.18.0 {#10180}

**Release date: December 18, 2024**

{{% button color="info" href="https://marketplace.mendix.com/link/studiopro/10.18.0" text="Go to Marketplace" title="Download version 10.18.0 from the Marketplace" %}}

### New Features

#### Version Control: Size Pre-Check of the MPR File

We introduced a new step during a commit process that checks for a large MPR file. We want users to be informed about large MPR files as can it become problematic for git.

#### Version Control and Storage Format

With Studio Pro 10.18, we are releasing a public beta of [MPRv2 format](/refguide/version-control/#mpr-format), a new storage format for Mendix apps that ensures a good performance over time.

Version Control systems, like Git, store changes in your files with each commit. An app modeled in Mendix is traditionally stored in a single *.mpr* file, which is essentially a database that contains data for all documents, such as microflows, workflows, pages. Git is not well-equipped to determine and store the differences in this case, which leads to rapid repository growth. This in turn can lead to longer download times when cloning your app.

With MPRv2 the key difference is that all documents, such as microflows, will no longer be stored as part of the *.mpr* file but as separate files in the *mprcontents* directory. The *.mpr* file will function as an index file pointing to all the different files on disk. This means that when you change one document, for example, a page, that only a small file representing that page will change on disk. This allows Git to calculate an efficient delta, which results in a more appropriate repository growth compared to MPRv1.

Upgrading to the new format is optional and can be done per branch.

#### Security Overview (Beta)

We are introducing a new beta feature that provides an overview of your app’s security. You can now get an overview of access rules across your application, making it easier to review and ensure the correct security setup for user roles in each module. Access this overview from the **App** menu by selecting **Show Security Overview**. Currently, this feature supports entity access rules, and we will extend support to page, microflow, and nanoflow access rules soon. For more information, see [Security Overview](/refguide/security-overview/).

#### Other New Features

* We introduced [UI Recommender](/refguide/ui-recommender/) to the page editor, which allows users to easily add new widgets to a page without having to lose context of what they are currently working on. 
* The React client is now generally available. For more information, see [Mendix React Client](/refguide/mendix-client/react/). For more guidance on upgrading widgets, see [Widget Conversion Limitations](/refguide/mendix-client/widget-conversion-limitations/).
* We added [Maia Learn](/refguide/maia-learn/), a way for new developers to get quickly up to speed with Mendix core concepts. It is available through the toggle button in Maia Chat.
* We added a welcome page to Studio Pro that opens on every new version installed. It contains links to the release notes, Mendix platform blog, links within Studio Pro to Maia Learn and Maia Chat. 
* We added the ability to view file changes and resolve conflicts directly from the **Changes** pane in Studio Pro. You can now open the file comparison tool to review modified files or navigate to the folder containing any changed file listed in the **Changes** pane. To resolve conflicts, simply choose to keep your local version or accept the incoming server version. This update streamlines the management of both project and disk files. For more information, see the [Status](/refguide/using-version-control-in-studio-pro/#status) section in *Using Version Control in Studio Pro*.
* We added a new option: [Generate Bill of Materials](/refguide/app-menu/#generate-bill-of-materials) that is now available under **App** > **Tools**.
* We added a new setting called [Editor Tabs Closing Policy](/refguide/preferences-dialog/#closing-policy) that allows to limit the amount of concurrent working area tabs. 
* We added the ability to export the translatable text in your app and re-import it using `mx.exe`. Use `mx.exe translate --help` for an overview of the command line options. For more information, see the [mx translate Command](/refguide/mx-command-line-tool/app/#translate) section in *App Commands*.
* We added consistency checks for custom *index.html* files to inform developers in case they accidentally hard-code templated values.
* Data Importer now allows Excel and CSV files to be used as a source for creation of Import Mapping, which further can be used to leverage all the benefits of Import Mapping.
* We introduced Native Template 11 for native apps in 10.18 and above. This upgrade disables support JavaScriptCore (JSC) in favor of Hermes. For details on migrating and resolving breaking changes, see the [Native Template 11 release notes](/releasenotes/mobile/nt-11-rn/#jsc-hermes).

### Improvements

* [Maia Domain Model Generator](/refguide/domain-model-generator/), a way to generate domain models using natural language, is now enabled by default while it was previously hidden behind a **New Features** setting. It is now also supported in existing domain models. It is still, however, in experimental phase.
* We added various UI improvements to Consumed REST service for better user experience.
* We added progress indicator while sending a request in Consumed REST service document.
* We added progress indicator while validating JSON body in Consumed REST service document.
* It is now possible to rename, delete, and duplicate a request in the Consumed REST Service editor by clicking the button with three dots next to the request name.
* We switched to Hermes as the default JavaScript engine for all native mobile applications. This change enhances performance, reduces memory usage, and speeds up start times for mobile apps, leading to a smoother user experience.
* We added a logger which logs to a console in JSON format.
* We added the `WebSocketEndpointConfiguration` interface to the Mendix Runtime API. An implementation of this interface can be passed to the [`Core.addWebSocketEndpoint`](https://apidocs.rnd.mendix.com/10/runtime/com/mendix/core/Core.html#addWebSocketEndpoint(java.lang.String,javax.websocket.Endpoint)) method to configure subprotocols and modify the handshake for web sockets. Modifying the handshake can be used to update response headers.
* We implemented a new method, [`getDatabaseSettingAsString()`](https://apidocs.rnd.mendix.com/10/runtime/com/mendix/core/conf/Configuration.html#getDatabaseSettingAsString()) in the Mendix Runtime API to access database settings.
* We now use the `ApplicationRootUrl` setting to determine if application cookies should be marked as `Secure`. Previously, we were only checking `X-Forwarded-Proto` and `X-Forwarded-Scheme` headers.
* We improved the naming of *mine/theirs* in the **Changes** pane when merging or rebasing to more clearly describe whether changes are coming in from the server or have been made locally. For more information, see [Combining Changes and Conflict Resolution](/refguide/merge-algorithm/).
* We improved accessibility for the **Close** button in delete confirmation dialog boxes. It can now be reached with tab, and has a better `aria-label`.
* We increased the coverage of localization of the Studio Pro user interface by 25%.
* We improved the quality of Japanese translations based on feedback from users.
* Data Importer now supports new-line characters in Excel headers while importing.

### Fixes

* <a id="fix-line-endings"></a>We fixed a [known issue](/releasenotes/studio-pro/10.0/#css-ki) where Studio Pro theme files (such as *theme-cache/theme.compiled.css.map*) showed up as changed. This situation was caused by incorrect generation of line endings in automatically generated content. For existing apps that have mixed line endings possibly on different branches, the file can show up as changed again. To correct the issue for your app on the opened branch, commit the change.
* In the logic editors, we fixed an issue when extracting a submicroflow with annotations that were not in the same looped activity as other objects. (Ticket 207767)
* We fixed a deployment issue with reference (set) selection pages where they sometimes lost selection functionality after other documents had been changed. (Ticket 221185)
* We fixed an issue in the logic editors where using the middle mouse button to pan the canvas did not work when the mouse was over connection points, error handler icons, resize handles, and Bézier curve handles. (Ticket 224031)
* In the logic editors, extracting a microflow did not create parameters for variables that were created inside the new microflow. (Ticket 226919)
* In the logic editors, we fixed the displayed output variable type for retrieve actions when following a self-association. (Ticket 227953)
* In the logic editors, we fixed the generated return values when extracting submicroflows. (Ticket 229998)
* We fixed the issue where localization errors were reported while running command line tools. (Ticket 230517)
* We fixed an issue where apps could not be opened after a merge conflict was resolved. (Ticket 233793)
* We fixed an issue where cyclic snippet calls caused a crash in Studio Pro when Strict Mode was enabled.
* We fixed an issue where pasting widgets from one document template to another threw an error.
* We fixed an issue in the error check that led to a crash when a document was changed again after an earlier change introduced errors because selected elements could not be found.
* We fixed Studio Pro freezes that might happen when editing pages.
* In the **Message Definitions** editor we now warn the user to refresh when the previously configured structure no longer matched the selected entity.
* We fixed the sync issue between the Consumed REST service editor and the domain model, now Consumed REST service document does not need to be reopened to reflect changes in the domain model.
* Now the correct request is visible in the Consumed REST Service editor when you open the editor starting from a request error or warning, or when you press **Show** from a **Send REST Request** microflow activity.
* We fixed an issue in consumed OData services where using large metadata files caused an exception when finding associations (called *partners* in OData).
* In the logic editors, we no longer open property dialogs when ctrl+Enter, alt+Enter, or shift+Enter are pressed, only Enter without additional keys.
* We fixed several issues in the Offline Profile validations where an **Oops** pop-up window appeared.
* We fixed an issue in the new entity access rules editor on high DPI screens, where icons sometimes appeared blurry and content peeked through borders during scrolling.
* We fixed an issue where user tasks from excluded workflows did not get properly converted when updating a Mendix app to 10.12.
  
### Deprecations

* We no longer support Gradle versions below 8.5.
* We deprecated a few legacy setter methods from the public API: `ISession.setTimeZone` and `ISession.setUserAgent`.
* We deprecated a few classes and interfaces in our internal M2EE API library: `com.mendix.m2ee.api.AdminAction`, `com.mendix.m2ee.api.AdminException`, `com.mendix.m2ee.api.IAppContainer`, `com.mendix.m2ee.api.IMxRuntime`. We also deprecated the methods `com.mendix.m2ee.api.IMxRuntimeRequest.getContext` and `com.mendix.core.conf.Configuration.checkConfig`.
* We deprecated `com.mendix.core.actionmanagement.CoreAction` class. You can use `com.mendix.systemwideinterfaces.core.UserAction` instead.
* We deprecated `IContext context()` method in `com.mendix.systemwideinterfaces.core.UserAction`. You can use `IContext getContext()` instead.
* We deprecated the method `IMendixObjectMember<?> getMember(IContext context, String memberName)` in IMendixObject interface. You can use `IMendixObjectMember<?> getMember(String memberName)` instead.
* We deprecated `String getUnhashedValue()` method of `MendixHashString`. The method was meant for internal use only.
* We deprecated `getClonedContext` methods in `CoreActionHandler` and `InternalCoreAction`.
* We deprecated `Boolean isValid(IContext context, String identifier)` method in `com.mendix.core.objectmanagement.member.MendixEnum` and provide an alternative version that does not require `IContext` parameter.


### Known Issues

* <a id="ki-outbound-rest-request"></a>The body for outbound REST requests, sent by either a **Call REST service** or a **Send REST request** activity, is incorrectly formatted using ISO-8859-1 encoding instead of UTF-8, which is the applied encoding for Studio Pro versions up to 10.16. (Tickets 235194, 237487)
    * Fixed in [10.18.1](#fix-outbound-rest-request).
