templates/how-to-template.md, before:

---
title: "Enter the title of the document"
#url: Set the relative URL of the document; after the name of the main directory/product the document is in, use the document title; example for document titled my-new-page.md, in refguide directory: /refguide/my-new-page/
#linktitle: Enter a short title to be used in the left side menu; increases readability and navigation through the menu
#weight: Enter the position of the document compared to other 'child' documents at the same level; number by 10 (for first), 20, 30, etc. for easy ordering of other documents in the future if necessary; don't add brackets or quotation marks
#description: "Set a description with a maximum of 140 characters; this should describe what the goal of the document is, and it can be different from the document introduction; this is optional, and it can be removed"
#draft: Set to true if page should not appear in production
---

## Introduction

{Describe what this how-to will cover and what the user will learn.}

This how-to teaches you how to do the following:

* Create...
* Build...
* Configure...

## Prerequisites

{If there are no prerequisites, leave this section out}

Before starting this how-to, make sure you have completed the following prerequisites:

* {Prerequisite 1}
* {Prerequisite 2}

## {Title of Section Using Present Participle Verb/Gerund}

To {do this task}, follow these steps:

1. {Step 1}
2. {Step 2}

{{< figure src="/attachments/rest-of-image-path/image-name-and-extension" >}}

### {Title of Sub-Section}

{Use sub-sections for more detail.}

## Read More

* {Link 1}
* {Link2} – {an explanation when necessary especially if this is a third-party link}

{Make sure this section contains a bulleted list only with explanations where necessary. Do not just repeat cross-references you used throughout the document, but list useful supplementary links here.}

Commit message:

Add note to templates that document titles should be unique

templates/how-to-template.md, after:

---
title: "Enter the title of the document - this should be unique to aid Google indexing"
#url: Set the relative URL of the document; after the name of the main directory/product the document is in, use the document title; example for document titled my-new-page.md, in refguide directory: /refguide/my-new-page/
#linktitle: Enter a short title to be used in the left side menu; increases readability and navigation through the menu
#weight: Enter the position of the document compared to other 'child' documents at the same level; number by 10 (for first), 20, 30, etc. for easy ordering of other documents in the future if necessary; don't add brackets or quotation marks
#description: "Set a description with a maximum of 140 characters; this should describe what the goal of the document is, and it can be different from the document introduction; this is optional, and it can be removed"
#draft: Set to true if page should not appear in production
---

## Introduction

{Describe what this how-to will cover and what the user will learn.}

This how-to teaches you how to do the following:

* Create...
* Build...
* Configure...

## Prerequisites

{If there are no prerequisites, leave this section out}

Before starting this how-to, make sure you have completed the following prerequisites:

* {Prerequisite 1}
* {Prerequisite 2}

## {Title of Section Using Present Participle Verb/Gerund}

To {do this task}, follow these steps:

1. {Step 1}
2. {Step 2}

{{< figure src="/attachments/rest-of-image-path/image-name-and-extension" >}}

### {Title of Sub-Section}

{Use sub-sections for more detail.}

## Read More

* {Link 1}
* {Link2} – {an explanation when necessary especially if this is a third-party link}

{Make sure this section contains a bulleted list only with explanations where necessary. Do not just repeat cross-references you used throughout the document, but list useful supplementary links here.}
