templates/marketplace-component-page-template.md, before:

---
title: "Enter the title of the document"
#url: Set the relative URL of the document; after the name of the main directory/product the document is in, use the document title; example for document titled my-new-page.md, in refguide directory: /refguide/my-new-page/
#linktitle: Enter a short title to be used in the left side menu; increases readability and navigation through the menu
#weight: Enter the position of the document compared to other 'child' documents at the same level; number by 10 (for first), 20, 30, etc. for easy ordering of other documents in the future if necessary; don't add brackets or quotation marks
#description: "Set a description with a maximum of 140 characters; this should describe what the goal of the document is, and it can be different from the document introduction; this is optional, and it can be removed"
#draft: Set to true if page should not appear in production
---

## Introduction

{Provide a basic description of what this platform-supported Mendix Marketplace component does.}

### Typical Use Cases

### Features

### Limitations

### Prerequisites

### Dependencies

{List important dependencies, especially when they are other Marketplace components.}

### Demo App

{Provide a link to a maintained demo app where the component is used if available.}

## Installation

{Describe the basic installation of the component if necessary.}

## Configuration

{Describe the properties to be configured.}

## Usage

{Optional: Provide more info for general use cases here if desired. You should provide this info in a reference guide page or how-to for more specific or advanced use cases.}

## Troubleshooting

{Optional: Provide basic troubleshooting info for configuration here if necessary. You should provide this info in a reference guide page or how-to for more specific use cases.}

## Read More

{Add links to related documents and blog posts. Contextualize necessary third-party links in the above sections, as they should not be put here.}

Commit message:

Add note to templates that document titles should be unique

templates/marketplace-component-page-template.md, after:

---
title: "Enter the title of the document - this should be unique to aid Google indexing"
#url: Set the relative URL of the document; after the name of the main directory/product the document is in, use the document title; example for document titled my-new-page.md, in refguide directory: /refguide/my-new-page/
#linktitle: Enter a short title to be used in the left side menu; increases readability and navigation through the menu
#weight: Enter the position of the document compared to other 'child' documents at the same level; number by 10 (for first), 20, 30, etc. for easy ordering of other documents in the future if necessary; don't add brackets or quotation marks
#description: "Set a description with a maximum of 140 characters; this should describe what the goal of the document is, and it can be different from the document introduction; this is optional, and it can be removed"
#draft: Set to true if page should not appear in production
---

## Introduction

{Provide a basic description of what this platform-supported Mendix Marketplace component does.}

### Typical Use Cases

### Features

### Limitations

### Prerequisites

### Dependencies

{List important dependencies, especially when they are other Marketplace components.}

### Demo App

{Provide a link to a maintained demo app where the component is used if available.}

## Installation

{Describe the basic installation of the component if necessary.}

## Configuration

{Describe the properties to be configured.}

## Usage

{Optional: Provide more info for general use cases here if desired. You should provide this info in a reference guide page or how-to for more specific or advanced use cases.}

## Troubleshooting

{Optional: Provide basic troubleshooting info for configuration here if necessary. You should provide this info in a reference guide page or how-to for more specific use cases.}

## Read More

{Add links to related documents and blog posts. Contextualize necessary third-party links in the above sections, as they should not be put here.}
