content/en/docs/refguide/modeling/domain-model/oql/oql-v2.md, before:

---
title: "OQL Version 2 Features"
linktitle: "Switching to OQL Version 2"
url: /refguide/oql-v2/
weight: 100
---

## Introduction

In Studio Pro version 10.17, we introduced OQL v2. You will have to switch to OQL v2 in order to enable View entities. See the [View entities](/refguide/app-settings/#enable-view-entities) app setting for more information.

OQL v2 syntax is the same as OQL. However, there are a few differences in the handling of specific, mostly not very common, cases.

When switching to OQL v2, you should check if existing OQL queries in your model have any of these features.

## OQL V2 Features

The following changes are included in OQL v2:

### `GROUP BY` Association Is No Longer Allowed

In OQL v2, you can no longer use a path over association in a `GROUP BY` query because the outcome of such query was unpredictable in the case of one-to-many and many-to-many associations.

This query is not allowed anymore:

```sql
SELECT COUNT(*) AS count
FROM Module.Person
GROUP BY Module.Person/Module.Person_City/Module.City/Name
```

Instead, you can use the long path in the `JOIN` pattern as follows:

```sql
SELECT COUNT(*) AS count
FROM Module.Person AS P
JOIN Module.Person/Module.Person_City/Module.City AS C
GROUP BY C/Name
```

### More Strict Data Type Validation in OQL Functions

OQL v2 has more strict data type validation of some functions and other expressions.

#### `CASE` {#case-validations}

In OQL v2, all result expressions of a [CASE](/refguide/oql-expression-syntax/#case-expression) expression should have matching types or be Null. In OQL v1, there was no such validation, and handling of different types was delegated to the database, which made the behavior database-specific and unreliable.

Also, in OQL v2 it is no longer possible to have Null as the result of all result expressions of CASE. In OQL v1, that was allowed, but would lead to database-level exceptions for some database vendors.

Numeric types Integer, Long and Decimal are considered matching. See [examples](/refguide/oql-expression-syntax/#case-expression-examples) of `CASE` expressions for details on how different numeric types are combined.

#### `COALESCE` {#coalesce-validations}

Data type validation of [COALESCE](/refguide/oql-expression-syntax/#coalesce-expression) follows the same logic as CASE.

In OQL v2, all arguments of a [COALESCE](/refguide/oql-expression-syntax/#coalesce-expression) expression should have matching types or be Null. In OQL v1, there was no such validation, and handling of different types was delegated to the database, which made the behavior database-specific and unreliable.

Also, in OQL v2 it is no longer possible to have a COALESCE expression where all arguments are Null literals. In OQL v1, that was allowed, but would lead to database-level exceptions for some database vendors.

Numeric types Integer, Long and Decimal are considered matching. See [examples](/refguide/oql-expression-syntax/#coalesce-expression-examples) of `COALESCE` for details on how different numeric types are combined.

#### `LENGTH` {#length-validations}

In OQL v2, the argument of [LENGTH](/refguide/oql-expression-syntax/#length-function) function can only be of type String. Noth that values of Enumerations are also treated as Strings. In OQL v1, there was no such validation, and handling of other types was delegated to the database.

#### `DATEPART` and `DATEDIFF` {#date-validations}

In OQL v2, the date arguments of functions [DATEPART](/refguide/oql-expression-syntax/#datepart-function) and [DATEDIFF](/refguide/oql-expression-syntax/#datediff-function) can be only of one of the following types:
- Date and time
- String. In this case, Runtime will implicitly attempt conversion of the string to a Date and time.
- One of Numeric types Integer, Long and Decimal. In this case, the value is treated as a Java timestamp.

### Subquery Columns Should Have a Name or an Alias

In OQL v1, when a column in the `SELECT` clause is a subquery, it was possible for it not to have a name. For example:

```sql
SELECT
  Name,
  (
    SELECT COUNT(*)
    FROM Module.Person
    WHERE Module.Person/City = Module.City/Name
  )
FROM Module.City
```

In OQL v2, such queries are no longer allowed. You must always provide an alias for subqueries that do not result in a named column. The query above can be rewritten as follows:

```sql
SELECT
  Name,
  (
    SELECT COUNT(*)
    FROM Module.Person
    WHERE Module.Person/City = Module.City/Name
  ) AS PersonCount
FROM Module.City
```

### Duplicate Columns in ‘SELECT’

#### Specify Entity Name

 You can no longer use duplicate column names without specifying an entity name when it is not clear which entity the attribute belongs to. You must explicitly specify the entity.

For example, if both entities `Module.Person` and `Module.City` have an attribute `Name`, you cannot use the following query in OQL v2: 

```sql
SELECT Name
FROM Module.Person
JOIN Module.Person/Module.Person_City/Module.City
```

In OQL v1, the query would assume that `Name` belongs to `Module.Person`, which could become a source of errors.

In OQL v2, you can write the same query specifying the entity, as follows:

```sql
SELECT Module.Person/Name
FROM Module.Person
JOIN Module.Person/Module.Person_City/Module.City
```

#### Allow Joining of Subqueries with Duplicate Columns

In OQL v1, if both entities `Module.Person` and `Module.City` have a duplicate attribute `Name`, the following query would fail:

```sql
SELECT *
FROM (SELECT * FROM Module.Person) P
JOIN (SELECT * FROM Module.City) C
ON P/Residence = C/Name
```

In OQL v2, the query above no longer fails, which makes the behavior consistent with the case of `SELECT *` combined with `JOIN` without subqueries.

Having concrete duplicate attribute names is also now allowed:

```sql
SELECT *
FROM (SELECT Name FROM Module.Person) P
JOIN (SELECT Name FROM Module.City) C
ON P/Residence = C/Name
```

You still cannot use duplicate aliases in different joined subqueries. This leads to an error the same way as in OQL v1.

For example, you cannot use the following query:

```sql
SELECT *
FROM (SELECT LastName AS N FROM Module.Person) P
JOIN (SELECT Name AS N FROM Module.City) C
ON P/Residence = C/Name
```

### `ORDER BY` in Subquery

You must now have a `LIMIT` and/or `OFFSET` in subquery containing `ORDER BY`. Using `ORDER BY` in subquery makes sense only when it is combined with `LIMIT` and/or `OFFSET`. Without the limitations, database engines do not guarantee that the row order in the subquery will be preserved in the outer query.

Consequently, you cannot use the following query in OQL v2.

```sql
SELECT *
FROM (
    SELECT Name
    FROM Module.Person
    ORDER BY Name
)
```

In OQL v1, Runtime would have passed such query to the database and. although it would have been handled by most database engines, it could not be handled by SQL Server.

You can still use a subquery with `LIMIT` and/or `OFFSET`. For instance, in the following query, the subquery returns the first 20 objects of entity `Module.Person` ordered by `Name`:

```sql
SELECT *
FROM (
    SELECT Name
    FROM Module.Person
    ORDER BY Name
    LIMIT 20
)
```

### `ORDER BY` in View Entities

For view entities, you must now have a `LIMIT` and `OFFSET` in all `ORDER BY` clauses, even for the top level query.

This is because view entity results are not accessed directly. In the Runtime, a View entity is wrapped inside another `SELECT` query as a subquery, which allows further filtering and ordering. This makes it similar to the Subquery case, above.

### Result Types from Arithmetic Functions

OQL v2 handles the situations where different sides of an arithmetic operation have different data types differently.

Take the following example:

```sql
SELECT Attribute1 + Attribute2 AS SumAttr
FROM Module.Entity
```

In OQL v1, the result of the arithmetic operation will always be of type pf the first attribute in the expression because it is handled by the database. Therefore, the result would depend on the underlying database engine.

When handling numeric types in OQL v2 (Integer, Long, and Decimal), the result of the operation is always the most precise attribute type, using the following precedence:

* Decimal (highest)
* Long
* Integer

If any side of the operation is of a non-numeric type, no casting is performed, and the result is handled by the , as in OQL v1. See [Expression syntax](/refguide/oql-expression-syntax/#type-coercion) for more information.

### The Result Type of ‘ROUND’ Is Now ‘Decimal’

In OQL v1, `ROUND` would return a `Float` result. 'Float' is no-longer supported by Studio Pro. In OQL v2, it always returns `Decimal`.

### Attribute Alias in `WHERE`

In OQL v1, referring to an attribute by alias was allowed, but it would throw an exception in the database. In OQL v2, that is no longer allowed.

### `JOIN` Without `ON`

In OQL v1, it was possible to write a query such as the following.:

```sql
SELECT *
FROM Module.Person
JOIN Module.City
```

This is no longer allowed in OQL v2 as a query like this would fail in every supported database engine except MySQL.

In OQL v2, you must either specify `ON` or use join over association. So you could rewrite the query above as follows:

```sql
SELECT *
FROM Module.Person, Module.City
```

### ‘JOIN’ an Entity to Its Own Generalization

In OQL v1 there was a bug which meant that when you ‘JOIN’ed an entity to its own generalization it would generate unexpected specialization columns. This has been fixed.

For example, say entity `Module.Vehicle` has two specializations: `Module.Car` and `Module.Bike`. The query below would previously  generate unexpected duplicate columns for entity `Vehicle`. This no longer happens.

```sql
SELECT *
FROM Module.Car
JOIN Module.Vehicle
ON True
```

Commit message:

Improve oql-v2 docs on alias requirements
Extra information for union clause

content/en/docs/refguide/modeling/domain-model/oql/oql-v2.md, after:

---
title: "OQL Version 2 Features"
linktitle: "Switching to OQL Version 2"
url: /refguide/oql-v2/
weight: 100
---

## Introduction

In Studio Pro version 10.17, we introduced OQL v2. You will have to switch to OQL v2 in order to enable View entities. See the [View entities](/refguide/app-settings/#enable-view-entities) app setting for more information.

OQL v2 syntax is the same as OQL. However, there are a few differences in the handling of specific, mostly not very common, cases.

When switching to OQL v2, you should check if existing OQL queries in your model have any of these features.

## OQL V2 Features

The following changes are included in OQL v2:

### `GROUP BY` Association Is No Longer Allowed

In OQL v2, you can no longer use a path over association in a `GROUP BY` query because the outcome of such query was unpredictable in the case of one-to-many and many-to-many associations.

This query is not allowed anymore:

```sql
SELECT COUNT(*) AS count
FROM Module.Person
GROUP BY Module.Person/Module.Person_City/Module.City/Name
```

Instead, you can use the long path in the `JOIN` pattern as follows:

```sql
SELECT COUNT(*) AS count
FROM Module.Person AS P
JOIN Module.Person/Module.Person_City/Module.City AS C
GROUP BY C/Name
```

### More Strict Data Type Validation in OQL Functions

OQL v2 has more strict data type validation of some functions and other expressions.

#### `CASE` {#case-validations}

In OQL v2, all result expressions of a [CASE](/refguide/oql-expression-syntax/#case-expression) expression should have matching types or be Null. In OQL v1, there was no such validation, and handling of different types was delegated to the database, which made the behavior database-specific and unreliable.

Also, in OQL v2 it is no longer possible to have Null as the result of all result expressions of CASE. In OQL v1, that was allowed, but would lead to database-level exceptions for some database vendors.

Numeric types Integer, Long and Decimal are considered matching. See [examples](/refguide/oql-expression-syntax/#case-expression-examples) of `CASE` expressions for details on how different numeric types are combined.

#### `COALESCE` {#coalesce-validations}

Data type validation of [COALESCE](/refguide/oql-expression-syntax/#coalesce-expression) follows the same logic as CASE.

In OQL v2, all arguments of a [COALESCE](/refguide/oql-expression-syntax/#coalesce-expression) expression should have matching types or be Null. In OQL v1, there was no such validation, and handling of different types was delegated to the database, which made the behavior database-specific and unreliable.

Also, in OQL v2 it is no longer possible to have a COALESCE expression where all arguments are Null literals. In OQL v1, that was allowed, but would lead to database-level exceptions for some database vendors.

Numeric types Integer, Long and Decimal are considered matching. See [examples](/refguide/oql-expression-syntax/#coalesce-expression-examples) of `COALESCE` for details on how different numeric types are combined.

#### `LENGTH` {#length-validations}

In OQL v2, the argument of [LENGTH](/refguide/oql-expression-syntax/#length-function) function can only be of type String. Noth that values of Enumerations are also treated as Strings. In OQL v1, there was no such validation, and handling of other types was delegated to the database.

#### `DATEPART` and `DATEDIFF` {#date-validations}

In OQL v2, the date arguments of functions [DATEPART](/refguide/oql-expression-syntax/#datepart-function) and [DATEDIFF](/refguide/oql-expression-syntax/#datediff-function) can be only of one of the following types:
- Date and time
- String. In this case, Runtime will implicitly attempt conversion of the string to a Date and time.
- One of Numeric types Integer, Long and Decimal. In this case, the value is treated as a Java timestamp.

### Subquery Columns Should Have a Name or an Alias

In OQL v1, when a column in the `SELECT` clause is a subquery, it was possible for it not to have a name. For example:

```sql
SELECT
  Name,
  (
    SELECT COUNT(*)
    FROM Module.Person
    WHERE Module.Person/City = Module.City/Name
  )
FROM Module.City
```
The column names in this case would be `Name` and a `null` name which would not be possible to refer to.

In OQL v2, such queries are no longer allowed. You must always provide an alias for subqueries that do not result in a named column. The query above can be rewritten as follows:

```sql
SELECT
  Name,
  (
    SELECT COUNT(*)
    FROM Module.Person
    WHERE Module.Person/City = Module.City/Name
  ) AS PersonCount
FROM Module.City
```

This also applies to constants as attributes, including `NULL`. The query below is no longer allowed:
```sql
SELECT
  Name,
  NULL
FROM Module.City
```

It can be rewritten to use aliases for constants:
```sql
SELECT
  Name,
  NULL as NullColumn
FROM Module.City
```

{{% alert color="info" %}}
This requirement only applies to attributes in the main `SELECT` query. `SELECT` clauses inside subquries are not affected, as are columns that are used for comparisons like in a `WHERE` clause.
{{% /alert %}}

### Duplicate Columns in ‘SELECT’

#### Specify Entity Name

 You can no longer use duplicate column names without specifying an entity name when it is not clear which entity the attribute belongs to. You must explicitly specify the entity.

For example, if both entities `Module.Person` and `Module.City` have an attribute `Name`, you cannot use the following query in OQL v2: 

```sql
SELECT Name
FROM Module.Person
JOIN Module.Person/Module.Person_City/Module.City
```

In OQL v1, the query would assume that `Name` belongs to `Module.Person`, which could become a source of errors.

In OQL v2, you can write the same query specifying the entity, as follows:

```sql
SELECT Module.Person/Name
FROM Module.Person
JOIN Module.Person/Module.Person_City/Module.City
```

#### Allow Joining of Subqueries with Duplicate Columns

In OQL v1, if both entities `Module.Person` and `Module.City` have a duplicate attribute `Name`, the following query would fail:

```sql
SELECT *
FROM (SELECT * FROM Module.Person) P
JOIN (SELECT * FROM Module.City) C
ON P/Residence = C/Name
```

In OQL v2, the query above no longer fails, which makes the behavior consistent with the case of `SELECT *` combined with `JOIN` without subqueries.

Having concrete duplicate attribute names is also now allowed:

```sql
SELECT *
FROM (SELECT Name FROM Module.Person) P
JOIN (SELECT Name FROM Module.City) C
ON P/Residence = C/Name
```

You still cannot use duplicate aliases in different joined subqueries. This leads to an error the same way as in OQL v1.

For example, you cannot use the following query:

```sql
SELECT *
FROM (SELECT LastName AS N FROM Module.Person) P
JOIN (SELECT Name AS N FROM Module.City) C
ON P/Residence = C/Name
```

### `ORDER BY` in Subquery

You must now have a `LIMIT` and/or `OFFSET` in subquery containing `ORDER BY`. Using `ORDER BY` in subquery makes sense only when it is combined with `LIMIT` and/or `OFFSET`. Without the limitations, database engines do not guarantee that the row order in the subquery will be preserved in the outer query.

Consequently, you cannot use the following query in OQL v2.

```sql
SELECT *
FROM (
    SELECT Name
    FROM Module.Person
    ORDER BY Name
)
```

In OQL v1, Runtime would have passed such query to the database and. although it would have been handled by most database engines, it could not be handled by SQL Server.

You can still use a subquery with `LIMIT` and/or `OFFSET`. For instance, in the following query, the subquery returns the first 20 objects of entity `Module.Person` ordered by `Name`:

```sql
SELECT *
FROM (
    SELECT Name
    FROM Module.Person
    ORDER BY Name
    LIMIT 20
)
```

### `ORDER BY` in View Entities

For view entities, you must now have a `LIMIT` and `OFFSET` in all `ORDER BY` clauses, even for the top level query.

This is because view entity results are not accessed directly. In the Runtime, a View entity is wrapped inside another `SELECT` query as a subquery, which allows further filtering and ordering. This makes it similar to the Subquery case, above.

### Result Types from Arithmetic Functions

OQL v2 handles the situations where different sides of an arithmetic operation have different data types differently.

Take the following example:

```sql
SELECT Attribute1 + Attribute2 AS SumAttr
FROM Module.Entity
```

In OQL v1, the result of the arithmetic operation will always be of type pf the first attribute in the expression because it is handled by the database. Therefore, the result would depend on the underlying database engine.

When handling numeric types in OQL v2 (Integer, Long, and Decimal), the result of the operation is always the most precise attribute type, using the following precedence:

* Decimal (highest)
* Long
* Integer

If any side of the operation is of a non-numeric type, no casting is performed, and the result is handled by the , as in OQL v1. See [Expression syntax](/refguide/oql-expression-syntax/#type-coercion) for more information.

### The Result Type of ‘ROUND’ Is Now ‘Decimal’

In OQL v1, `ROUND` would return a `Float` result. 'Float' is no-longer supported by Studio Pro. In OQL v2, it always returns `Decimal`.

### Attribute Alias in `WHERE`

In OQL v1, referring to an attribute by alias was allowed, but it would throw an exception in the database. In OQL v2, that is no longer allowed.

### `JOIN` Without `ON`

In OQL v1, it was possible to write a query such as the following.:

```sql
SELECT *
FROM Module.Person
JOIN Module.City
```

This is no longer allowed in OQL v2 as a query like this would fail in every supported database engine except MySQL.

In OQL v2, you must either specify `ON` or use join over association. So you could rewrite the query above as follows:

```sql
SELECT *
FROM Module.Person, Module.City
```

### ‘JOIN’ an Entity to Its Own Generalization

In OQL v1 there was a bug which meant that when you ‘JOIN’ed an entity to its own generalization it would generate unexpected specialization columns. This has been fixed.

For example, say entity `Module.Vehicle` has two specializations: `Module.Car` and `Module.Bike`. The query below would previously  generate unexpected duplicate columns for entity `Vehicle`. This no longer happens.

```sql
SELECT *
FROM Module.Car
JOIN Module.Vehicle
ON True
```
